The commented article of Shile, Ben-Ahmed, and Sadik [2024] is a version of the manuscript submitted by the authors Shile, Ben-Ahmed, and Sadik to another journal in November 2022. This manuscript contains exactly the same numerical results for both code verification tests and statistical inferences as the article commented here. 

I was invited to review the manuscript and I accepted because the topic was very familiar to me. I co-authored and coordinated the article “Numerical benchmark study for flow in highly heterogeneous aquifers” by Alecsa et al. [2020] - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.advwatres.2020.103558, cited as reference [7] in the commented article. 

After the first reading of the manuscript, I realized the existence of serious deviations from scientific ethics. I had a choice between proposing the rejection or undertaking the hard work of correcting and guiding the authors in undertaking an honest scientific approach. I chose the second alternative because I considered that the respective study could lead to interesting results from the point of view of possible applications (e.g., efficient Monte Carlo assessments for transport in heterogeneous aquifers). I also indicated to the authors this perspective several times during the five reviews that I made between December 2022 and September 2023.
 
The scientific misconduct in the manuscript and its revisions may be illustrated by many examples presented in my successive reviews. Below, I’ll enumerate a couple of them. 
1) The formulation of the problem, the manufactured solutions, the numerical setup, and the Matlab codes employed in (Alecsa, et al., 2020) as well as the codes for the radial function method were used without giving the appropriate credit: 
- the Git repository (https://github.com/PMFlow/FlowBenchmark) containing the codes and the data files for the benchmark problems, and 
- the software package (https://www.it.uu.se/research/scientific_computing/software/rbf_qr) used to implement the numerical solution for the RBF method
are not cited in the submitted manuscript (they were introduced in the subsequent versions in response to my remarks).
2) Attempts to cover up the plagiarism (in the submitted manuscript):
- the dimensions of the computational domain of the benchmark have been changed to create a version of Figs. 1 and 2 in [Shile, Ben-Ahmed, and Sadik, 2024] with a different appearance than the ones produced by the codes from the Git repository in the original domain;
- the analytical expressions of the manufactured solutions from [Alecsa et al., 2020] were edited to create the impression that these are their own results.
3) Made up results:
- the finite difference results presented by the authors in the submitted manuscript and in the version R1 are clearly made up. I obtained completely different results when I solved the same benchmark problems with the same method and numerical scheme that the authors claimed they have used. In this case, the authors fabricated finite difference results with lower accuracy in order to show the superiority of their method.

Since the deviation of the Monte Carlo inferences of the velocity variances presented by the authors from the linear approximation was by one order of magnitude smaller than the results published in the past, I recommended that the authors make the codes and the data used in statistical inferences available online. Note that the authors did not use their own codes but the codes produced by other authors, already published online. Publishing the implementation of the Monte Carlo procedure was only meant to prove that the results are not made up. The authors declined the recommendation with the following motivation: “due to the nature of our upcoming work, we are currently unable to comply with this specific recommendation. As our future projects rely on these codes, their availability requires careful consideration”. When I reiterated the recommendation, the authors decided to withdraw the manuscript. After a couple of months, following a Google Scholar alert, I found the article published in Engineering Analysis with Boundary Elements. 

